README.rst, before:

AWS Tagging Machine
===================

Auto applying tags for AWS resources for a better activity and costs tracking.

Description
-----------

This project use a Lambda function to tag AWS resources by following this
process:

1. CloudTrail produces events
2. These events are catch by an CloudWatch Event Rule
3. The Rule trigger an Lambda function
4. The function tags the resource depending on event source

.. image:: images/template.png
    :align: center

Here is an example of applied tags on a resource:

.. image:: images/example-tags.png
    :align: center

Current event supported:

- (EC2) RunInstances
- (EC2) CreateImage
- (EC2) CreateDhcpOptions
- (EC2) CreateNetworkAcl
- (EC2) CreateNetworkInterface
- (EC2) CreateRouteTable
- (EC2) CreateSecurityGroup
- (EC2) CreateSnapshot
- (EC2) CreateSubnet
- (EC2) CreateVolume
- (EC2) CreateVpc
- (EC2) CreateInternetGateway
- (DynamoDB) CreateTable
- (S3) CreateBucket
- (SQS) CreateQueue

Much more events will be added, see TODO section for more information.
Work in progress.

Prerequisites
-------------

**Obviously, CloudTrail must be activated.**

Deployment
----------

Deployment with CloudFormation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To deploy this solution you can use the CloudFormation template present in the
"deployment" directory. This directory also contains a ZIP file containing the
whole source code of this project.

Before create a new CloudFormation stack with that template, you have to:

1. Upload the zip file to a S3 bucket
2. Edit the CloudFormation template and replace the bucket name with your bucket's name
3. Then, create a new CloudFormation Stack with the template on the desired AWS region

TODO
----

The development is still ongoing. The next releases will add:

- support of more events and AWS services
- other deployment methods (Ansible and Terraform probably)
- another stuff, who knows :-)

Pull requests are welcome.

How to add support of new events into the code ?
------------------------------------------------

To add the support of new events into the code, you have to do 5 things:

1. Add the parsing of the new event in the right Python module (ex: events_ec2.py)
2. Add the support of this new event in the factory module (factory.py)
3. Update the CloudFormation template by adding this event in the CloudWatch Rule
4. Write some unittests and put them into the file unittest-lambda.py (and add a sample in the directory event-samples)
5. Update this page if needed :-)

License
-------

This project is under GPL3 license.

Commit message:

Adding a new deployment method (with Terraform)

README.rst, after:

AWS Tagging Machine
===================

Auto applying tags for AWS resources for a better activity and costs tracking.

Description
-----------

This project use a Lambda function to tag AWS resources by following this
process:

1. CloudTrail produces events
2. These events are catch by an CloudWatch Event Rule
3. The Rule trigger an Lambda function
4. The function tags the resource depending on event source

.. image:: images/template.png
    :align: center

Here is an example of applied tags on a resource:

.. image:: images/example-tags.png
    :align: center

Current event supported:

- (EC2) RunInstances
- (EC2) CreateImage
- (EC2) CreateDhcpOptions
- (EC2) CreateNetworkAcl
- (EC2) CreateNetworkInterface
- (EC2) CreateRouteTable
- (EC2) CreateSecurityGroup
- (EC2) CreateSnapshot
- (EC2) CreateSubnet
- (EC2) CreateVolume
- (EC2) CreateVpc
- (EC2) CreateInternetGateway
- (DynamoDB) CreateTable
- (S3) CreateBucket
- (SQS) CreateQueue

Much more events will be added, see TODO section for more information.
Work in progress.

Prerequisites
-------------

**Obviously, CloudTrail must be activated.**

Deployment
----------

Deployment with CloudFormation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To deploy this solution you can use the CloudFormation template present in the
"deployment" directory. This directory also contains a ZIP file containing the
whole source code of this project.

Before create a new CloudFormation stack with that template, you have to:

1. Upload the zip file to a S3 bucket
2. Edit the CloudFormation template and replace the bucket name with your bucket's name
3. Then, create a new CloudFormation Stack with the template on the desired AWS region

If you want to delete this solution just destroy the CloudFormation stack.

Deployment with Terraform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can also use Terraform to deploy this solution. You can find the main.tf 
file in the deployment directory. Here is the installation steps: 

1. Go in the deployment directory
2. Edit the main.tf file and replace the AWS region if you need to (default is eu-west-1)
3. Set environment variables AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY with your creditials
4. If it's the first time you use Terraform, do an ``terraform init`` before go further
5. do an ``terraform plan`` to preview the changes
6. do an ``terraform apply`` to create the resources

If you want to delete this solution just do a ``terraform destroy``.

TODO
----

The development is still ongoing. The next releases will add:

- support of more events and AWS services
- other deployment methods (Ansible probably)
- another stuff, who knows :-)

Pull requests are welcome.

How to add support of new events into the code ?
------------------------------------------------

To add the support of new events into the code, you have to do 5 things:

1. Add the parsing of the new event in the right Python module (ex: events_ec2.py)
2. Add the support of this new event in the factory module (factory.py)
3. Update the CloudFormation template by adding this event in the CloudWatch Rule
4. Write some unittests and put them into the file unittest-lambda.py (and add a sample in the directory event-samples)
5. Update this page if needed :-)

License
-------

This project is under GPL3 license.
